Updated data tiering section (#539)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: using-timescaledb/data-tiering.md

# Data Tiering 

> TimescaleDB includes the ability to perform data tiering using a built-in

Reviewer: do we refer to other timescaledb functions as built-in? sounds a bit weird

> function [`move_chunk`][api-move-chunk].  This action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function [`move_chunk`][api-move-chunk].  This function
```

regularly queried.

1. The second tablespace `history` is backed by slower, less expensive storage
(HDDs) and is meant for older chunks that are more rarely queried.

Taking a "data tiering" approach, as data ages, its corresponding chunks are
moved between the two tablespaces, providing a balance in storage between
performance and cost.  Additional "tiers" may be employed of increasing
large/cheap/slow tablespaces when appropriate.

Data tiering provides another mechanism, in addition to other TimescaleDB
capabilities like compression and data retention, to help manage data storage
costs.

Using multiple tablespaces can also yields I/O performance benefits. With data
tiering, you can isolate large scans of historical data from the continual
read/write workload against recent data (in the default tablespace).

## Creating a Tablespace

The [`move_chunk`][api-move-chunk] function requires multiple tablespaces set up in PostgreSQL, so let's
start with a quick review of how this works.

First, add a storage mount that will serve as a home for your new tablespace. This
process will differ based on how you are deployed, but your system administrator

> should be able to arrange setting up the mount point. The key here is to backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be able to arrange setting up the mount point. The key here is to back
```

your tablespace with storage that is appropriate for how its resident data will be used.

To create a [tablespace][] in Postgres:

```sql
CREATE TABLESPACE history
OWNER postgres
LOCATION '/mnt/history':
```

> Here we are creating a tablespace called `history` that will be in this case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we are creating a tablespace called `history` that will be
```

owned by the Postgres user and it will use the storage mounted at `/mnt/history`.

Now we are ready to leverage this new tablespace and underlying storage for TimescaleDB
chunks and their indexes.

## Move Chunks :community_edition: [](move_chunks)

Now that we have set up a new, empty tablespace, we can move individual chunks
from their default tablespace to this new secondary tablespace.  The move
chunks command also allows you to move indexs belonging to those chunks to this
secondary tablespace (or another on).

> In addition, the [`move_chunk`][api-move-chunk] functionality alow provides the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the [`move_chunk`][api-move-chunk] functionality provides the
```

ability to "reorder" the chunk during the migration in order to enable faster
queries.  This behavior is similar to [`reorder_chunk`][reorder_chunk]; please
see that documentation for more information.

To determine which chunks to move, we can list chunks that fit a specific
criteria.  For example, to identify chunks older than two days:

```sql
SELECT show_chunks('conditions', older_than => INTERVAL '2 days');
```

> In this example, we will move `_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk` along
> with its index over to `history` using the following command, while reordering
> the chunk based on its time index:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or to, for example, move `_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk` along
with its index over to `history`, while reordering the chunk based on its time index:
```

```sql
SELECT move_chunk(
  chunk => '_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk',
  destination_tablespace => 'history',
  index_destination_tablespace => 'history',
  reorder_index => '_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk_netdata_time_idx',
  verbose => TRUE
);
```
Once this successfully executes, we can verify that our chunk now lives on the
`history` tablespace by querying `pg_tables` to list all of the chunks that
are on `history`:

```sql
SELECT tablename from pg_tables
  WHERE tablespace = 'history' and tablename like '_hyper_%_%_chunk';
```

> As you will see, the target chunk is now listed as residing on `history`; we

Reviewer 2: Here and directly below, I feel like there should be example output.

Author: Don't disagree, but going to skip for now for time...

can similarly validate the location of our index:

```sql
SELECT indexname FROM pg_indexes WHERE tablespace = 'history';
```

## Additional data tiering examples [](other-examples)

After moving a chunk to a slower tablespace, you may want to move a chunk back
to the default, faster tablespace:

```sql
SELECT move_chunk(
  chunk => '_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk',
  destination_tablespace => 'pg_default',
  index_destination_tablespace => 'pg_default',
  reorder_index => '_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk_netdata_time_idx'
);
```

Alternatively, you may decide to move a data chunk to your slower tablespace,
but keep the chunk's indexes on the default, faster tablespace:

```sql
SELECT move_chunk(
  chunk => '_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk',
  destination_tablespace => 'history',
  index_destination_tablespace => 'pg_default',
  reorder_index => '_timescaledb_internal._hyper_1_4_chunk_netdata_time_idx'
);
```

You could perform the opposite as well (keeping the data in `pg_default` but

> moving the index to `history`), or you can setup a third tablespace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
moving the index to `history`), or setup a third tablespace
```
